The sector has always managed to make its way through the increasingly stringent requirements and the difficult market with great creativity, but when I look at the profit figures, I fear that even this creativity will miss the mark.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should first like to welcome the overall objective sought by the Commission's proposal, namely of making our roads even safer.
I am therefore grateful to all of the Members who have worked on it in the committees to bring us closer to this objective.
Allow me, as a member of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and as someone from a rural constituency, nevertheless to make a number of critical comments.
At first sight, the title 'harmonisation of certain social legislation relating to road transport' does not appear to have any relevance for agriculture policy.
However, the Commission proposal contains a number of points which are also important for agriculture.
Alongside vehicles that the layperson would imagine to be passenger, goods or towing vehicles in the conventional sense, namely cars or lorries, the Commission proposal also affects vehicles that are used in farming.
Hitherto these were excluded by virtue of the old Article 13.
If courier and express delivery services are frequently involved in serious accidents then it may well be justified to include them in the scope of this regulation.
But for milk collection vehicles and tractors to be made subject to provisions of this kind as well does seem to me to be very arbitrary.
Imagine what this means in real life: tractors - and some are really very small - with tachographs, or the driver of a milk lorry, who goes from farm to farm and can no longer have his little chat (rest period) with farmer X because he has to respect a very particular sequence of driving times and rest periods, as if he were travelling from Rotterdam to Munich.
Let me give you another example: Article 13 provides for an exemption for the transport of live animals within a 50-kilometre radius.
For vehicles transporting animal carcasses and offal there is no such exemption.
What is the reasoning behind this?
I view the restrictions that are to be introduced on breakdown vehicles in a similarly critical light.
The current regulation, which provided for exemptions in the areas that I have mentioned, certainly did not penalise the weaker members of society, but it was practicable.
Thankfully my group has tabled amendments that mitigate some of these shortcomings in the Commission proposal.
Nevertheless, I am certainly of the opinion that there will still be much more to correct before the second reading, precisely in the agricultural sector, if we want legislation that the public will understand and also accept.
Anything else just causes bad feeling towards Europe.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would firstly like to thank you for your constructive comments on our proposal and say, in order to dispel any doubts, that this is not a social policy proposal.
That would be the responsibility of Mrs Diamantopoulou rather than me.
That is not my competence.
I am talking about road safety. That is the objective of this proposal.
If the social aspect were the primary objective, we would have to consider other issues.
I am talking about safety on our roads in the transport sector and, of course, distortions of competition.
In view of the large number of amendments proposed, I will present a list in writing to the Secretariat of Parliament indicating the Commission's specific position on each of them.

